Tutorial registry (#53)
scverse/scverse-tutorials: README.md

[![Documentation][badge-docs]][link-docs]

On [scverse.org/learn](https://scverse.org/learn), we aim at providing a comprehensive overview of analyses that can be
performed with scverse core and ecosystem packages.

To this end, this repository contains

-   a registry for tutorials listed on [scverse.org/learn](https://scverse.org/learn) (see `tutorial-registry`)
-   shared tutorials that complement more specific tutorials provided by invidiual [core](https://scverse.org/packages/)
    and [ecosystem](https://scverse.org/packages/#ecosystem) packages (see `docs`)

## Adding tutorials

If you believe a tutorial should be added to `scverse.org/learn`, please open an issue. We will discuss the request
in the next [open community meeting](https://hackmd.io/VfVLKb3ETGKN2j_7tn8ZJQ?view).

> For being added to our website, tutorials must fulfil at least the following requirements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be added to our website, tutorials must fulfil at least the following requirements:
```

> For being added to our website, tutorials must fulfil at least the following requirements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For being added to our website, tutorials must fulfill at least the following requirements:
```

-   all featured packages must be scverse [core](https://scverse.org/packages/#core-packages) or
    [approved ecosystem packages](https://scverse.org/packages/#ecosystem). This does not apply to packages that are not
    specific to omics data analysis (e.g. pandas, seaborn).
-   the notebook author agrees to maintain the tutorial in the future and is reachable via [zulip](https://scverse.zulipchat.com).
-   the notebook contains a backlink to [scverse.org/learn](scverse.org/learn)

## Structure of external tutorials

While we do not mandate a specific structure for tutorials,
a good tutorial typically comprises the following sections:

1. **General header**: The tutorial should have a general header that corresponds to the analysis.
2. **Brief introduction**: The tutorial should introduce the package, the analysis motivation and potentially biological background.

> 3. **Requirements to run the notebook**: Special computational requirements like memory or GPUs should be specified. Any required input from other notebooks should also be listed here.

Reviewer: I'd like to mention somewhere that these tutorials should be somewhat self contained and not require weird input from some random places. Not sure whether this is the best place to enforce/mention this.

Please check out the [learn](https://scverse.org/learn) page on scverse.org for an overview of all tutorials!

# tutorial registry

The purpose of this document is to formalize the criteria to be eligible for external tutorial inclusion into the scverse tutorials listing (https://scverse.org/scverse-tutorials/).

## Criteria to be eligible for tutorial inclusion

We have the following requirement for a package to be eligible to be considered for tutorial submission/mirroring:

> 1. The package must be a scverse listed ecosystem package and therefore meet all corresponding requirements.

Reviewer: Can we link to the requirements/process here?

Author: I guess all of them should be core or listed ecosystem packages?

> 2. Any used (advanced) methods must be published. Preprints are acceptable on a case by case basis.

Reviewer: It's not quite clear what "on a case by case basis" here means. Is it us judging this? Should we ask people with preprints to contact us beforehand ?

> 3. We require an active point of contact that is available on zulip. We reserve the right to remove packages if we cannot reach a responsible person anymore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. We require an active point of contact that is available on the [scverse zulip](https://scverse.zulipchat.com/). We reserve the right to remove packages if we cannot reach a responsible person anymore.
```
